Date:- 24-07-2023

Welcome To CDS Code Solutions
Trainee:- Amar 


Introduction to the Course

➤Data Engineering and Python Development
	 1) Python (core  and advance)
	 2) SQl (Basic and Advance)
	 3) Big Data Concept (Pyspark, Spark, Hadoop)
	 4) Cloud Technology (Azure , AWS)
	 
➤ Task Managment Tool
	 1) Jira
	 2) Agile
	 3) Serum 
	 1) Git
	 2) Jenkis
 
 
➤ Communication Tools
	 Ms team
	 slack
	 Google meet
	 zoom
 
 
➤ Email Writing :- Professional Email
 
➤ Job related to cousre
	 
	 ● Python + Spark, Hadoop =  Big Data Engineer or Spark Developer, Hadoop Developer,
	 ● Python + sql + Big Data = Data Engineer
	 ● Python + sql + Big Data + (Azure or AWS) = Cloud Data Engineer. 
	 ● Python + SQL+ (PowerBI or Tableau) = Data Analyst
	 ● Python + Django = Python Developer
 
➤ Duration 4 months
 
 ●  Agenda for today
	 1) What is python?
	 2) Reason for Popular
	 3) What set python aprt?
	 4) where python is used
	 5) Who is using python
	 6) Application of python
 
 
1) What is python?
   ● Python is a high-level programming language created by Guido Van
     Rossum. 
   ● Today Python interpreters are available for many Operating 
	 Systems including Windows and Linux.
   ● It can be use for Data Engineering, Data Science, web development etc.
   ● High Level Language:- English 
   ● Low level Language:- 0 and 1. (Computer Understand low level)
	  •	Python was developed by Guido Van Rossum in 1989 (Developed)
	  •	Official it was launch in 1991 feb 20th.
	  •	Python is first programming language for beginner
	  
	  1.  To print Hello in Java it requires 7-8 line code,
	  2.  To print “Hello” in python it is 1 line code.
	  
	●	How Python Name is derived:- Name is deriverd by the TV shows 
		“ The Complete Monty’s python’s Circus “ On BBC in 1974.


	1.	Function programming from c
	2.	Objet oriented programming language and  Cpp (C++)
	3.	Shell Scripting Package
	4.	Pearl

	● Python Application
		1.	Desktop
		2.	Web application
		3.	Database
		4.	Network Analysis
		5.	Data Analysis
		6.	Machine learning
		7.	AI
		8.	IOT
		9.  Data Visulazation.
		10. Data science.
		
	All are using python like Big Firm youtube,NASA and top MNC firm.

	●	python + Java   	= Jython
	●	python + C  		= Cython
	●	python + .net       = Ironpython
	●	python + Spark      = pyspark  (Relate to Big Data Concept)
	●	python + Sele       = pysele
	●	python + Hadoop     = pyhadoop

	➤ Features of Python
		1.	Simple and easy to learn
		2.	Syntax very simple
		3.	Less no of code
		4.	Freeware & open source
		5.	High level programming
		6.	Platform Independent
		7.	Dynamically typed- No need to define variable 
		8.	Interpeted Language
		9.	Extensive Library (Package of code)
		10.	Both Procedural and object oriented programming.

	➤ C++/ java have  :- Editor +  Compiler + Interpret/ Debugger.

	➤ Python :- Editor and Interpret (IMP)

➤   What is Compiler :
		It convert High to low level Language.
		Check the syntax

➤ Limitations of Python 
	1.	Not Suitable for Mobile application
	2.	Backward Compatibility Issues (you can’t work python 2.0 file
		on python 3.0) or python 3.0 in python 2.0)
		
➤ Evolution of python version (Important Question)
	1.	Python 1.0 in January 1994
	2.	Python 2.0 in October 2000
	3.	Python 3.0 in December 2008


➤	In Interview we should always say .
    That I have work on 2.X something or 3.2 Version.

➤	New Version are brought in market to add new thing and 
	changes in existing  version to remove the bugs.


➤  Difference between two version  (Interview Quesetion)
		Print “hello”  -  python 2.0 
		Print(‘hello”) – python 3.0


➤  Python Editor or Coding writing platforms
		•	Notepad
		•	Pycharm
		•	Spyder
		•	Jupyter Notebook (We will be using this)

 Reason for Popular
	 3) What set python apart?
	 4) where python is used
	 5) Who is using python
	 6) Application of python
 
2)  Reasons for Popularity
    There are several reason for popularity
	
	(a) Free:
		- Python is free to use and distribute and is supported by
		community.
		- Python interpreter is available for every major platform.
	(b) Software quality:
		- Better than traditional and scripting languages.
		- Readable code, hence reusable and maintainable.
		- Support for advance reuse mechanisms.
	(c) Developer productivity:
		- Much better than statically typed languages.
		- Much smaller code.
		- Less to type, debug and maintain.
		- No lengthy compile and link steps.
	(d) Program portability:
		- Python programs run unchanged on most platforms.
		- Python runs on every major platform currently in use.
		- Porting program to a new platform usually need only cut and
		  paste. This is true even for GUI, DB access, Web programming,
		  OS interfacing, Directory access, etc.
	(e) Support libraries:
		- Strong library support from Text pattern matching to
		  networking.
		- Vast collection of third party libraries.
		- Libraries for Web site construction, Numeric programming,
		  Game development, Machine Learning etc.
	(f) Component integration:
		- Can invoke C, C++ libraries and Java components.
		- Can communicate with frameworks such as COM, .NET.
		- Can interact over networks with interfaces like SOAP, XML-RPC,
		  CORBA.
		- With appropriate glue code, Python can subclass C++, Java, C#.
		  classes, thereby extending the reach of the program.
		- Popularly used for product customization and extension.
	(g) Enjoyment:
		- Ease of use.
		- Built-in toolset.
		- Programming becomes pleasure than work
		
3)  What sets Python apart?
	(a) Powerful:
		- Dynamic typing.
		- No variable declaration.
		- Automatic allocation and Garbage Collection.
		- Supports classes, modules and exceptions.
		- Permits componentization and reuse.
		- Powerful containers - Lists, Dictionaries, Tuples,Set etc.
	(b) Ready-made stuff:
		- Support for operations like joining, slicing, sorting, mapping, etc.
		- Powerful library.
		- Large collection of third-party utilities.
	(c) Ease of use:
		- Type and run.
		- No compile and link steps.
		- Interactive programming experience.
		- Rapid turnaround.
		- Programs are simpler,smaller and more flexible.

4)  Where is Python used?
	Python is used for multiple purposes. These include:
		(a) System programming
		(b) Building GUI applications
		(c) Internet scripting
		(d) Component integration
		(e) Database programming
		(f) Rapid prototyping
		(g) Numeric and Scientific programming
		(h) Game programming
		(i) Robotics programming
		
5)  Who uses Python today?
	Many organizations use Python for varied purposes. These include:
		(a) Google - In web search system
		(b) YouTube - Video Sharing service
		(c) Bit-torrent - Peer to Peer file sharing system
		(d) Intel, HP, Seagate, IBM, Qualcomm - Hardware testing
		(e) Pixar, Industrial Light and Magic - Movie animation
		(f) JP Morgan, Chase, UBS - Financial market forecasting
		(g) NASA, FermiLab - Scientific programming
		(h) iRobot - Commercial robot vacuum cleaners
		(i) NSA - Cryptographic and Intelligence analysis
		(j) IronPort - Email Servers.

